Adding revert.md file (#2480)
Codecademy/docs: content/git/concepts/revert/revert.md

---
Title: 'Revert'
Description: 'The git revert command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made to a previous commit.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

> In Git, the **`revert`** command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made to a previous commit. This can be considered as the safe undo command because it keeps previous history. The command is best used when working with others and need to preserve the commit history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Git, the **`revert`** command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made to a previous commit. This can be considered as the safe undo command because it keeps previous history. The command is best used when working with others and there's a need to preserve the commit history.
```

> **Note:** This command can be mistaken for the [`reset`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset) command, which is a more dangerous undo command because it alters existing hitory.

## Syntax

```shell
git revert <commit-reference>
```

> ### Commit Reference

Reviewer: We don't need this header. Delete it so the following lines are in the syntax section. Make sure to also delete the extra blank line so there's only one blank line between the code block and the first sentence.

The `commit-reference` is the unique hash of a commit that is generated after creation. This hash is a long string that is a mix of characters and numbers that is usually represented by a shorter version: `a63b1329066c8ddd95c8d7bb201bacfb8b18e167` -> `a63b132`

> `git revert` can be used with the commit hash (as seen below) or with the `HEAD` keyword (as seen with [`reset`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset)), which refers to the commit being viewed on the currently checked-out branch.

Reviewer: Can you show an example of using the HEAD keyword in this entry?

---
Title: 'Revert'

> Description: 'The git revert command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made to a previous commit.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'The git revert command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made in a previous commit.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

> In Git, the **`revert`** command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made to a previous commit. This can be considered as the safe undo command because it keeps previous history. The command is best used when working with others and there's a need to preserve the commit history.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Git, the **`revert`** command is used to create a new commit that will undo any changes made in a previous commit. This can be considered as the safe undo command because it keeps previous history. The command is best used when working with others and there's a need to preserve the commit history.
```

> **Note:** This command can be mistaken for the [`reset`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/reset) command, which is a more dangerous undo command because it alters existing hitory.

## Syntax

```shell
git revert <commit-reference>
```

The `commit-reference` is the unique hash of a commit that is generated after creation. This hash is a long string that is a mix of characters and numbers that is usually represented by a shorter version: `a63b1329066c8ddd95c8d7bb201bacfb8b18e167` -> `a63b132`

`git revert` can be used with the commit hash (as seen below) or with the `HEAD` keyword (as seen below), which refers to the commit being viewed on the currently checked-out branch.

## Example

> Lets say there are four commits with different files being added for each commit. To view the commits, use `git reflog`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lets say there are four commits with different files being added for each commit. To view the commits, use `git reflog`:
```

```shell
$ git reflog
0caf1ae (HEAD -> master) HEAD@{0}: commit: Add file 4
ffd3d9c HEAD@{1}: commit: add file 3
f85ef36 HEAD@{2}: commit: add file 2
fc3980d HEAD@{3}: commit (initial): add file 1
```

> The above shows that each commit has a new file added. file 1 is the first commit and file 4 is the most recent commit. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above shows that each commit has a new file added. File 1 is the first commit and file 4 is the most recent commit. 
```

> The writer for file 2 mentions that file 2 is no longer needed. By looking at the log, it shows all of the commit-references. Since file 2 is the one that needs to be reverted, use the hash that is seen in the first column to remove file 2 while preserving all the other commits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The writer for file 2 mentions that file 2 is no longer needed. To remove the file, while preserving all the other commits, the `revert` command is used with the hash for the commit in which file 2 was added:
```

```shell 
$ git revert f85ef36
```

> Another option to remove file 2 is with the `HEAD` keyword. Looking at the same log as before, it shows the commit for file 2 is located at `HEAD@{2}`. File 2 can then be removed with the following line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another option to remove file 2 is with the `HEAD` keyword. Looking at the same log as before, it shows the commit for file 2 is located at `HEAD@{2}`. File 2 can then be removed with the following line:
```

```shell
$ git revert HEAD~2
```

> By running the `git revert` command, this will then open a prompt to edit the message before comitting the revert. Once the message has been saved, check the logs to view the status of file 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By running the `git revert` command, this will then open a prompt to edit the message before committing the revert. Once the message has been saved, check the logs to view the status of file 2:
```

```shell
$ git reflog
f85ef36 (HEAD -> master) HEAD@{0}: revert: Revert "add file 2"
0caf1ae HEAD@{1}: commit: Add file 4
ffd3d9c HEAD@{2}: commit: add file 3
f85ef36 HEAD@{3}: commit: add file 2
fc3980d HEAD@{4}: commit (initial): add file 1
```

The log still shows the original commit of "add file 2", but it has moved forward and deleted file 2 with the most recent commit. The end result is file 1, file 3, and file 4 are preserved, while file 2 no longer exists. By using `git revert`, a new commit is created to delete the specific commit while preserving the previous history.

The `revert` command also has options that can be added such as:

- `-e` or `--edit`: This is the default option where it opens a prompt to edit the commit message before committing the revert.

> - `--no-edit`: This will not open the prompt for edit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `--no-edit`: This bypasses the prompt for a commit message edit.
```
